= quarter_time

A simple gem for dealing with quarter logic.  I happen to have a project where half the models in the database recur every three months as part of a "quarter" of the year.  Within the code, we constantly are asking "what quarter is this for?", or "show me all the records for this quarter".  Well, now I need the same power on another application, so say hello to "quarter_time".

(etymology: it's colloquial in some musical circles to use the phrase "quarter time" to represent the 4/4 time signature, or "three-quarter time" to mean 3/4.  Also, it's a short name for a gem that no one has used yet, I have to admit that did factor into the equation)

== Usage

1) Install! (or require with whatever dependancy manager you use)

    sudo gem install quarter_time
    
2) Require!
   
   require 'quarter_time'
   
3) Use!

  * find out what quarter a day belongs to:
  
    Date.parse("3/15/2010").quarter 
    # => 1
    Date.parse("12/12/2010").quarter
    # => 4

  * Use an object to represent quarters
  
    >> quarter = Quarter.new(2010,3)
    => #<Quarter: @quarter=3, @year=2010>
  
  *calculate the next or previous quarter in the logical sequence
  
    >> quarter.next
    => #<Quarter: @quarter=4, @year=2010>
    >> quarter.next.next
    => #<Quarter: @quarter=1, @year=2011>
    >> quarter.previous
    => #<Quarter: @quarter=2, @year=2010>
    
  *get the boundary dates of any given quarter
  
    >> quarter.start_date.to_s
    => "2010-07-01"
    >> quarter.end_date.to_s
    => "2010-09-30"
    
  *get a string representation of the quarter, good for interpolating into emails and such
  
    >> quarter.quarter_stamp
    => "Q3, 2010"
    
  *include a scope for easy finding, plus several quarter methods into your ActiveRecord models that have year and quarter fields!
  
    class SomeModel < ActiveRecord::Base
      include QuarterTime::QuarterDriven
    end
    
    q = Quarter.new(2010,2)
    model = SomeModel.for_quarter(q).first
    model.quarter_obj
      =>  #<Quarter: @quarter=2, @year=2010>
    model.start_date.to_s
      => "2010-03-01"
    model.quarter_stamp
      => "Q2, 2010"
      
== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 evizitei. See LICENSE for details.
